one welcome to the IKEA fest dynamic
data and capabilities working group
meeting thanks for joining
I'm going to share my screen just
okay so
so for if you haven't already put your
name on the attendee list please do so
is there anyone volunteering to take
notes today
No
if not that's okay because I can handle
it
Oh Thank You Nathan all right okay
also if you could add your if you have
any item on your agenda or demo please
add it to the agenda and also your your
update so let's start with a round of
intros and updates
[Music]
I can go I'm first on a list
so me where am i I'm here
cool so last week's I did a first pass
on pierced our app which is
implementation of the topology protocol
it is described on the scale or peer pad
effort I think it's here so if you
haven't read it I if you or you're
interested you can take a look
that's what protocol I'm we are
proposing here so this is a first pass
implementation of that on pierced our
app it's a very simple API where you can
create an application with the app name
and start a collaboration and you can
then collaborate documents are not fully
fleshed out yet I'm working on that it's
one of the items I'm going to attack
next
and yeah so I'll have a demo on that as
an example application which is in
progress but I'm going to show it anyway
blocked I'm blocked on the new config
options of JSP FS which allows you to
introduce to introduce dynamic
configuration on JSP FS which is going
to be used for us to be able to inject
the discovery protocol that wraps the
the current transport and so I'm I'm
waiting on on that I have a local
implementation very hacky implementation
of that right now on top of Jessup FS
but the overall solution will be to the
final solution for this will be to
create that on only peer to peer and
there's a full request for that which is
described here
next week next two too few weeks I'm
going to work on the commenting the API
I'm going to implement a maximum Delta
retention policy and I'm going also to
introduce authentication right now
there's no mutual authentication other
than the pr ID because of the EFS cycle
stream underneath and I'm also going to
do encryption at rest for the charity
state and deltas and that's it for me
Nathan you want to go ahead just stop
sure so Lance and I have been working on
getting every all the pieces in place
for for pure pet query right we're
starting this week it's going to use
Pierce here Gd so we've got text area
stuff working
we've got identity and permissions stuff
working so now it's it's a matter of
putting all those pieces together so
we're going to just start on that this
week and we've been working with the
with the design team to make sure that
all the features that we want for the
demo at the conference the end of July
is already and we've got the features of
the what so yep that's where we're at
about to dive deep into that now that we
have all the pieces cool
Thank You Nathan all right Ness next is
machi don't you want to go ahead yes
currently I'm working on interface data
exchange and rewriting web RTC start to
no longer use the central socket IO
server but rather use an abstract
interface to Henry dead so it can use
many ways of exchange
this will help probably was getting pure
pet because this will enable web RTC
star without the hassle of the web RTC
star signaling server and I'm currently
blocked on some issues I've linked they
are mainly related to some features
missing in the PDP and some minor packs
the next thing I'm going to work on is
the load testing
thanks much it can you give some people
that don't know what load testing
pertains to
you
I think what I'm supposed to be building
is basically a bunch of tests that run
multiple paths and then do a bunch of
operations and see how quickly that can
be done and if there are any crashes or
other problems that occur if too many
operations get done or large number of
operations get gets done
so yeah exactly
okay thank you much
have I think it's someone you Joel and
he's not yeah hi I'm Joel I was very
recently hired two weeks ago I met the
Media Lab and I'm working on a project
with a few of the researchers here on
building a decentralized graph database
to store all human knowledge the biggest
and best yet on behind yeah I didn't
really have any agenda items I wanted to
bring up I just wanted to say hi I might
be around I'm like we're building on top
of IP FS and I feel DS so I might be
show up with some questions if I ever
have any and I'm really interested in
your work that's all awesome that's
that's good news I didn't know that so
I'm just I'm curious you have you have
any any collaborative requirements for
for people to be editing the same yeah
it's something we're we're seriously
thinking about we're not really sure at
this point and we're just trying to get
familiar with you know what's out there
and what's what what you guys are
working on so potentially but nothing
concrete super interesting yeah hit me
on either research your aura fest
dynamic data and capabilities working
group or any other all the other repos
that you have around if you're curious
about something yeah yeah I've browsed
around but I thought I dropped in today
for the first time so hello thank you
Joe thank you
cool so let me share the screen again
[Music]
so Joel thank you for updates what's
next
demos right
hey I just realized that my demo wasn't
recorded and so I'm going to demo it
again because some quit on me and stop
recording so I'm going to demo it again
sorry about that alright so let's start
so the demo I have for you today is
about pure star app which is an
implementation of the scalp ear pads
effort protocol and topology that is
being discussed here on this pear pad
issue issue 180 and so I've been working
on this implementation piercer wrap it
has a very simple API so it's your star
require you create an app which has a
name you start it up and then you create
some self any set of collaborations and
you can also have a bunch of events on
pure activity and pure contestants so
the dots are very in flux I'm going to
work on them a bit layer later on right
now I have this demo of a very simple
application built on top of Pierce our
app she's also embedded on the if you
want on on the repo so it's on examples
counter was initially just a color it's
now currently more than that so it's as
a bunch of
a bunch of scripts here so the
application is very simple one react
application and it's going to associate
priest our app started and then and then
it's going to which this garbage or
about that and then it's going to
Associates a bunch of collaborations
which are their own components for
instance a condo collaboration creates
creates a collaboration object which is
pretty here and the state is being
propagated here so the peers the value
of the the collaboration and the bunch
of this it's like inbound connection
connection account and so the specific
the patch specific things are here so
the Rays doing we're going to be able to
push elements and move elements the
contrary gonna grow on the counter so
you be able to increment it and there's
a text collaboration where you can is a
bit more complex but it reacts to
changes on text and the propagates those
changes into the underlying strategy and
now for demo I'm going to start run this
boot server and and
server I have a react app here on port
3000 I'm going to start that localhost
port 3000
okay so here's aggro on the counter is
your array here's the text so grow on
the counter you can increment it you can
see there is no connections so there's a
peer estimate of one peers right now so
it's myself array is a bunch of island
like an ads push elements there I can
remove elements of anything any many
index and I hear on the text I can I can
put more text and yeah so let's see when
another peer comes in
mind you that this is very influx Oh
errors will happen
[Music]
most probably so yeah if I have to
pierce currently I'm connecting there's
inbound connection count outbound so
it's all being updated let me see if the
study was instinct so I have nine here
and incremented here can you comment it
here and I can see that it then probably
yeah get st. array can remove element
from the array and that the element will
eventually remove from here and then the
text I can add more text whoops
there's C tax at the end let's see four
text propagates here yeah more text so
it's all in sync
that's it for my demo
okay so I'm gonna start this identity
server I've got a post craft server
running that it uses going to start it
demo
[Music]
so here's here we are on on the page
generating a key key pair and stopping
there and we can ask it to attest the
key pair so it redirects to the identity
server and it's got the dead here and
it's self signed and so we can ask the
identity server to attest it so it adds
a station requested oh I'm test user on
that server so it grabs an identity it
got the attestation back from the server
and then it's verified that the server
did correctly signed the attestation and
so I can show you how that works real
quick let's see so if
stations been sent and it's not received
so the way is it can just redirect back
to the web app after it's attested and
every time the the web app loads the
react app here are loads it checks to
see if the attestation is if there's an
attestation for the did on the identity
server and if so then it grabs it and
verifies the attestation so the redirect
works very simply and I will have a demo
of this later today that I will record
and put in the channel that shows it
doing this for peers over Piercy HED as
well I've got that a lot finished the
eyes it's pretty simple generates the
did the distributed identity document it
requests attestation the server attests
it based on the user ID that you're
logged into over there
it does request the password again just
to verify the user when it does that it
signs and generates proof which can be
then later retrieved and then verified
that the server did inside that proof so
pretty simple but a lot of moving pieces
but that's it for me
Google thinking it
so we can see what we have next the exit
full-screen all right
you share the screen again okay all
right let me see if there's anything
else on the agenda
I have questions only yeah sure so so
your your peer app is that something
that you think we could use this way to
set up the basics for the new pure pad
chord or is it totally uh well it
doesn't have authentication but it
surely will anyway it will be handled
internally
the thing is identity you have to figure
out how to wire identity with it because
you have identity really really far
ahead and I haven't embedded really
embedded identity into this but it's
it's user usable as the one at my eye
that I have blocked is unblocked sorry
not this one on my end this one the
config thing it's just this one that I'm
currently blocked on and just
documenting think so hoping to have
today or tomorrow some news about about
about this or if there is any work
around that I should use a set of this
you can fix stuff on one lip it appear
the and yes I planned to before Thursday
to have this usable in that sense like
bring in this pure I didn't be stuff
and we bring Lance up with two lenses
textarea stuff and I think we could
could stand it up based on your app yes
it's yeah all the copies up there except
except when a dependency is JSF EFS a
local version I have of JSF PFS which I
kind of publish and then and then and
then put put the gear up URL instead of
just using a packaged version I can do
that very temporary but I can do that
definitely and I can do that today so
[Music]
just let me know yes I think I think
that would be great to have first put
hands on on on this and I'm not sure how
it ties up with with Lance's work on on
on text area but I think you can sync on
that because you can look at for
instance you can look at the app example
app and xre app that I did very simple
thing and then hit me up with with any
question that that may he may have that
is probably much more involved on that
then then AIIMS is a very clean example
but yeah let's do that
we're talking channel then yep okay
all right any more questions for any of
us for from any of us or for in foreign
new boots no no okay so thank you for
coming and I hope to see you in two
weeks
if not before on the interwebs thank you
bye bye
thanks everyone
you